---
layout: page
title: 'Getting Started (1)'
---

# 1. Creating a new project
Let's start by creating a new project. For the purposes of this guide, we will use unix-like commands, but they should be relatively easy to translate if you are using Windows.

## Making your workspace
Make a new directory, and initialize a project inside it:

```
mkdir myfancyproject
cd myfancyproject

touch index.html index.js
```

## Install substrate
```
npm install --save https://github.com/jhuapl-boss/substrate
```

This will create a `package.json` file in your working directory. Let's start out with a basic page for now. Copy and paste this into your `index.html`:

```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
    <head>
        <title>myfancyproject</title>
    </head>

    <body>
        <div id="viz-target"></div>
        <script src="bundle.js"></script>
    </body>
</html>

```

## Create index.js

Copy and paste this into your `index.js`:

```js
import Visualizer from 'substrate/components/Visualizer';
import AxisLayer from 'substrate/components/layers/AxisLayer';

let V = new Visualizer({
    targetElement: "viz-target"

    renderLayers: new AxisLayer(),
    cameraDistance: 150,
});
```

What does this do?

We create a `Visualizer` variable `V`, which has a few attributes which we can ignore, but _one very important attribute_, called `renderLayers`. This is where we'll specify which objects we'd like to include in our 3D scene. Right now, we only include the canonical tri-tone xyz-axis, which comes from a Layer that is built into Substrate. (It's a good hello-world of the substrate flavor.)

There are a few built in layers, which you can read more about [here](/). The tldr is that some common layer types, such as importing an OBJ file or rendering these axes, are provided to you for free: Other layers, you'll have to develop or implement yourself.

Before we continue: Notice that we _name_ our axis layer with the name `axis`: This is an arbitrary string that we chose because it seems intuitive...but we could just as easily have named it "Robert".

In fact, if we never care about accessing our layers directly by name, we can pass a `renderLayers` array instead of dictionary:

```js
renderLayers: [
    new AxisLayer()
]
```

[Next: Running your app](2)
